Seed Information Sheet

Alsike CloverA short lived perennial used when soil conditions are wet.  It withstands acid soils better than most competitors. Best adapted to cool climates.White Dutch CloverA low growing, spreading perennial clover.  It provides forage for deer, rabbits and birds. Provides food for bees.Unhulled Korean LespedezaWarm season annual legume.  Provides grazing for cattle, food for quail and forage for deer. It thrives in acid soil.  In many CRP programs.BuckwheatFast growing summer annual. Matures in 10-12 weeks.  Excellent food for wildlife.  Source of food for bees and honey production.  Cover crop for gardensWinter WheatUsed for erosion control and temporary cover.  Can be used for forage and cover for wildlife.Sorghum SudangrassCan be used for hay, haylage, green-chop and pasture. Its large root system results in drought tolerance and it can be planted into July. Good management practices need to be used to prevent prussic acid poisoning after frosts and in new growth.  It is not recommended for horses.Spring & Winter OatsForage for cattle and deer.  Can be used for hay.  Used as a cover crop. Spring oats can be used and will winter kill.Winter RyeCover crop that can be planted into November.  Can be used as an early spring forage for deer.  The seed heads can provide food for turkey.Creeping Red FescueA cool season turf fescue that spreads by rhizomes.  It should be planted in shady areas.Kentucky BluegrassA cool season turf grass that spreads by rhizomes.  It has an attractive blue-green color and fine texture.  It requires more care and maintenance than turf type fescues.KY 31 FescueA field fescue that is drought tolerant and very persistent. Used in waterways.   It can be used in lawns for a durable and traffic tolerant turf, but it takes more frequent mowing to make it look attractive as a lawn.  It is not as fine bladed as a turf fescue.Emerald Excellence Perennial Rygrass BlendA mix of three varieties of turf type perennial ryegrasses.  Perennial ryegrass is a bunch grass.  Turf type ryegrasses are bred to have finer blades and to be more traffic tolerant.Shady Lawn MixA mix of creeping red fescue, turf type perennial ryegrasses and bluegrass for a mixture that will grow in shade to semi-shade areas of the lawn.Frosty Annual RyegrassAs a cover crop, annual ryegrass has a very branched and deep root system to efficiently reduce compaction if planted repeatedly over time.  Frosty is a forage ryegrass that is very hardy and cold tolerant. It produces a superior forage that will not go dormant during the chill of winter.   Crimson CloverA winter annual.  Tolerant of medium soil acidity and will grow on both sandy and clay type soils. Used as a cover crop, planted early in spring or fall for weed control.  It has taller flower stems, grows more quickly and has larger seeds than medium red clover.  It fixes nitrogen and increases soil organic matter.Winter PeasA cool season annual legume.  When used as a cover crop it fixes N, enriches the soil and provides good weed suppression.  It is a high protein forage and a source of food for wildlife.  A cold tolerant viney plant that makes a good compliment to small grains.Daikon RadishScavenges nutrients and reduces soil compaction as a cover crop.  Provides forage for wildlife.Winter RapeseedA hardy cool season annual brassica used as a cover crop to scavenge N and suppress weeds.  It can be used as forage for livestock and wildlife.Purple Top TurnipsUsed for cover crops, high quality forage for deer and cattle and for garden consumption.
